Thoms' changes to BaU section (#62)
DanNixon/sine2020_software_guidelines_paper: guidelines_for_collaborative_development_of_sustainable_data_treatment_software.tex

This allows the processing history to remain with the processed data and allows the result dataset to be used as input for a future job.
Savu also provides tooling to allow a user to export a list of citations from their result data and is generated from the process list.

> \section{Software implementation}

Author: This section title is misleading. Software implementation does not include issue tracking or requirements capture. Whereas, business as usual does. This is because it is the description of the day to day running of the software, so includes more than just writing the software 
```suggestion
\section{Business as Usual}
```

Reviewer: Can we come up with a third option then? Business as Usual sounds wrong here. It is a commonly used phrase but usually when we return to the normal situation (I even looked it up: https://idioms.thefreedictionary.com/business+as+usual)

The daily development work?

Author: That would work

\label{Business as Usual}

> This section discusses factors and guidelines that affect the day-to-day work of software developers.

Author: see above comment.

Reviewer: ok

Author: ```suggestion
This section discusses the day-to-day work of software developers (i.e. development methodologies, code review and coding standards).
```

> Such as development methodologies, code review and coding standards.

Author: agreed

> Such as development methodologies, code review and coding standards.

Reviewer: ok

@DanNixon do you mean not giving URLs directly in the text?

> Such as development methodologies, code review and coding standards.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Another important part of the developers' job is to provide documentation for users and other developers.

Author: ```suggestion
Another important part of the developers' job is to provide documentation for users and other developers (see Section \ref{Documentation}).
```

Reviewer: ok

> Another important part of the developers' job is to provide documentation for users and other developers.

Author: we could refer to it

> Another important part of the developers' job is to provide documentation for users and other developers.

Reviewer: Agree that we could refer to it since documentation is part of the daily business and should be maintained together with the code. Well, at least in my opinion, I know there are divergent views on this.

Development methodology is the set of rules that determine how requirements are gathered, converted into developer tasks and how the software is delivered to the user.

> 

Author: I feel that this line is important to say.

> Two extremes of software development methodologies are called "agile" and "waterfall".

Author: ```suggestion
The two extremes of software development methodologies are called "agile" and "waterfall".
```

> In the following we will discuss these two extremes.

Author: ```suggestion
In the following we will discuss these two  extremes, however aspects of these two methodologies can be used simultaneously.
```

For scientific software agile, or some variant of that, is the most common methodology.

> The general principle of the agile methodology are short development "sprints" in which small, incremental additions are made to the overall software.

Author: ```suggestion
The general principle of the agile methodology are short development "sprints" in which small, incremental additions are made to the overall software.
If the sprint has a predetermined duration (usually a few weeks) then it is referred to as SCRUM. 
```

Reviewer: Actually, I think SCRUM preachers would say that there is more to it than just a pre-determined length of a sprint (I'm one of them ;-) )

Author: Im not an expert on SCRUM, so if you would like to say more we can.

The requirements are reviewed and adjusted accordingly for each sprint.
This allows requirements to change quickly, reducing the delay in obtaining feedback from users and developers to be more responsive to the users' needs.

> SCRUM is a popular agile methodology where a sprint has a pre-determined length, typically of a few weeks.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: please elaborate

Reviewer: ok, I have seen the following comment

> In contrast to this, each step in the development cycle (i.e., requirements, specifications, design, implementation, testing in that order) are fully completed for the project before moving on to the next task.

Author: I prefer the original text for waterfall. There are times when waterfall is the correct method, the new text does not reflect this.

Reviewer: I do not necessarily disagree but I think this is exactly the risk of a section like this, i.e. there is no concencus and it tends to become personal views. If we stick to the definition that at the end of a sprint (end) user value should have been added, then you are probably correct, although I am pretty sure some agile preachers would challenge this view. Anyway I would rather avoid that a discussion of this over-shadows what we want to achieve with this paper. An alternative would be to soften the language.

> In contrast to this, each step in the development cycle (i.e., requirements, specifications, design, implementation, testing in that order) are fully completed for the project before moving on to the next task.

Author: ```suggestion
If there are set of fixed non-negotiable requirements then the waterfall methodology is better.
For the waterfall methodology each task is planned in advance and carried out in a predetermined order.
This ensures that the requirements are met and at key milestones.
However, the waterfall method lacks flexibility, making it difficult to respond to a change in requirements.
Projects that are better suited to the waterfall methodology are those where delivering an intermediate product is not viable.
For example, a library to perform Fourier transformations is not useful unless fully implemented whereas a graphical data processing toolkit could be useful mid way through development.
```

> This potentially means that a mistake in, for instance, the design first is discovered towards the very end of the project, making it costly to fix. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The water fall approach, or at least the part considering gathering of requirements and specifications, has for instance been used at neutron and muon sources when the actual implementation is outsourced and a fixed price is desired from the provider.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> In reality agile development is often linked to a long term plan with high-level requirements, milestones, etc. 

Author: this sounds like a mixture of the two

Reviewer: Yeah that also how I think about it, but it is really only the very first step in the waterfall methodology which is applied, so again to avoid unnecessary discussions.

Author: ```suggestion
In reality a mixture of the two is usually implemented.
One potential way to do this is to have agile development linked to a long term plans with high-level requirements and milestones. 
```

\subsection{Coding Standards}
\label{Coding standards}

> Code should be of a high quality, the reason for this is two fold; code that conforms to accepted standards is more likely to be well formatted, readable and contain fewer bugs \cite{Green_2011}..

Reviewer 2: Don't cite this paper, it is pretty poor.

Author: I agree with @DanNixon, some of the examples in table 5 are misleading. For example:
```
Temp = 0
for i in range(0,N):
    Temp += getValue(i)
return Temp/N
```
It looks like Temp is temperature, but it could just as easily be counts. The standard I am familiar with for temporary is 
`tmp`

Reviewer: Ok, no problem with me. Do we have a better reference? (I think Temp only looks like temperature for people in the natural sciences)

Reviewer 2: A better reference for what? What assertion were you reinforcing by adding a reference here? The only thing I think actually warrants a reference is "contain fewer bugs" (which that sub par paper doesn't even help with).

> Code should be of a high quality, the reason for this is two fold; code that conforms to accepted standards is more likely to be well formatted, readable and contain fewer bugs \cite{Green_2011}..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code should be of a high quality, the reason for this is three fold; code that conforms to accepted standards is more likely to be well formatted, readable and contain fewer bugs \cite{Green_2011}..
```

Author: @DanNixon you have 2 full stops

Reviewer: ok

These factors combine to create a code base that is easier to maintain in the future.

Coding standards should be chosen based on the programming language.

> If multiple languages are going to be used it is possible to have rules for each language, see Mantid as an example \cite{mantidguidelines}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If multiple languages are going to be used it is possible to have rules for each language.
```

A community curated list of standards organised by language is available online at \cite{Awesome_Guidelines}.

> Although not commonly used in the community represented by the authors, we note that there exist more advanced analysis tools that give hints about the sustainability and maintainability of the software. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This says nothing.

> For instance the Black Duck Open Hub \cite{BlackDuck} and Wily for Python programs \cite{AnthonyShaw}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Not overly useful, Wily is already on Awesome Static Analysis, Black Duck Open Hub is somewhat useful but should be mentioned elsewhere if it is deemed relevant enough.

the improvements in the second code snippet include (any points that are C++ specific are noted):
\begin{itemize}

>   \item{A Doxygen \cite{doxygen} (TODO: add citation) comment is present.}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  \item{A Doxygen \cite{doxygen} comment is present.}
```

Reviewer: ok

To assist in maintaining code quality one or more "linters" (also referred to as "static analysis" tools) should be employed.
These are tools that inspect the code base to detect potential issues, such as unused variables, indentation errors, thread misuse etc.
There are linters available for almost every language.

> For example, Clang \cite{Clang} and Pylint \cite{Pylint} are two of the most common for C++ and Python, respectively.

Author: there is no need for the comma

Reviewer: ok

Linters are available as part of standalone packages that produce result reports, these are typically easy to install and run.
Some of these packages are also available as a cloud service (e.g. Coverity Scan \cite{coverity}), when new code is added to the remote repository the package will run and produce a result report.
For a wider selection of the available tools it is worth looking over the selection on Awesome Static Analysis (\cite{awesome_static_analysis}, a community curated list of static analysis tools.

When writing new code care should be taken to avoid pre-emptive optimisation, where the speed up in the execution time may not be significant.
A similar pitfall is pre-emptive generalisation, which is attempting to make the code less problem specific in the hope it can be reused later.

> In both of these cases it is better to first determine if any additional optimisation or generalisation is guaranteered to become genuinely beneficial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both of these cases it is better to first determine if any additional optimisation or generalisation is genuinely beneficial.
```

To assist in maintaining code quality one or more "linters" (also referred to as "static analysis" tools) should be employed.
These are tools that inspect the code base to detect potential issues, such as unused variables, indentation errors, thread misuse etc.
There are linters available for almost every language.

> For example, Clang \cite{Clang} and Pylint \cite{Pylint} are two of the most common for C++ and Python, respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, Clang \cite{Clang} and Pylint \cite{Pylint} are two of the most common for C++ and Python respectively.
```

For low level task tracking, simple tools such as GitHub Issues are likely sufficient.
The purpose of issue tracking is to provide a description of the task and to assign it to a developer.

> Additional features may include task boards specifically for the methodology employed (e.g.Scrum or Kanban boards), task dependency and task hierarchy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional features may include task boards (e.g.Scrum or Kanban boards), task dependency and task hierarchy.
```

> Most cloud hosted Source control management (SCM) services (e.g., GitHub and GitLab) provide their own issue tracking tool, which typically suit the needs of most software projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most cloud hosted Source control management (SCM) services provide their own issue tracking tool, which typically suit the needs of most software projects.
```

We say this later.

Hence, SCM is essential for software projects.

To fully utilise the benefits of SCM, it is necessary to have guidelines.

> Hence, there are ample guidelines for SCM, for more information please see  Ref.\ \cite{awesome-git} for a list of existing ones.

Author: ```suggestion
Hence, there are ample guidelines for SCM, for more information please see  Ref.\ \cite{awesome-git}.
```

Reviewer: ok

Therefore, this section will only give an overview and highlight a few commonly overlooked points.

A workflow defines how developers interact with the SCM.
This includes the process for reviewing and accepting changes into the code base.

> As a result it is important to define a workflow and to enforce it to ensure code quality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result it is important to define a workflow and enforce it to ensure code quality.
```

Reviewer: ok

It is common for less experienced developers to try and submit unused code (e.g. commented out code, functions that are never called and files that are not included) to the code base.
It is important not to add dead code into the code base, because
its presence reduces the readability of the code base.
Since the history of the code base is recorded as part of the SCM, removing dead code does not risk losing important information.

> A simple and popular option is the feature branch workflow ( Ref. \cite{feature-branch})).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A simple and popular option is the feature branch workflow \cite{feature-branch}.
```

> In this workflow a developer will work on a new feature using a new branch (also called fork) and that branch is then merged when the changes are accepted.

Author: ```suggestion
In this workflow a developer will work on a new feature using a new branch (also called a fork) and that branch is then merged when the changes are accepted.
```

Reviewer: ok. Actually I got a bit in doubt here. In my post doc days, if somebody forked the software they had started their own development branch independent of the original software and without the intent to merge back (a very bad thing).

Author: happened to me too

> There is some empirical evidence that  software projects supporting branching generally are sustained for longer compared to projects where branching is not used \cite{Alhozaimy2017}.

Author: ```suggestion
There is some empirical evidence that software projects that utilize branching are generally sustained for longer  \cite{Alhozaimy2017}.
```

Reviewer: ok with change. Are you okay with the reference?

Reviewer 2: I think this should be removed, that citation actually means "more collaborators, more sustainable" (or even "more popular, more sustainable" as people tend to fork projects they like and not go on to contribute).

 
Developers should also ensure that they produce a clear commit history.
Given that this is likely the longest standing documentation, describing the history of the code base is important.
The commits should be sensible, atomic and logically ordered.
The commit messages need to be clear and describe the reasoning behind the changes made in the commit.
For further reading please see Ref.\ \cite{git-commit}.

Git \cite{Git} is the most common and one of the most powerful SCM tools used in open source software.
One advantage is that it has a wide variety of training resources available (see e.g.\ Refs.\ \cite{github-git, atlassian-git, codecademy-git}).
Git is suitable for a project of any size and will probably last the full life of the project.

There are a wide range of cloud Git repository providers, all of which provide similar features.
For a distributed team it is beneficial to use a cloud Git repository (as opposed to local hosting on site) to avoid network related bottlenecks.

> The software considered in Section \ref{SINE2020} are all hosted on GitHub \cite{github}. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Not relevant here.

Reviewer: I am not sure I agree. I understand you try to distinguish between the general and specific guidelines and move all the specific stuff to SINE2020. However that already fails with the data format and elsewhere, and why not include information relevant for the target audience where it makes sense?

Reviewer 2: The big issue I have with this is that is is irrelevant, it makes little difference where the code is hosted as long as it is available.

> Some of the other software considered in SINE2020, but not part of the analysis for guidelines, are hosted on GitLab \cite{gitlab}. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Also not relevant here.

Reviewer: Same as above.

Jenkins \cite{Jenkins} is a self hosted CI solution that requires the user to provide the infrastructure.
As a result Jenkins can be adapted to suit the needs of a specific software project.
For example, it has no restrictions for build times, stores data locally and gives the developer complete control over the setup of the build environment.

>  Jenkins is used unanimously by the software projects presented in Section \ref{SINE2020}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Not relevant.

Reviewer: Same as previous

The developer proposing the changes should provide instructions on how to test if the changes are successful and why they are necessary.

The reviewer must ensure that the code is of an acceptable quality (coding styles, guidelines, etc. have been followed).

> This should also include if the commit history is sensible and the relevant documentation (including release notes and user documentation) has been updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This should also include if the commit history is sensible and the relevant documentation (including release notes) has been updated.
```

Obviously user documentation is relevant documentation.

Reviewer: We usually make a point out of ensuring that documentation is up to date (or at least try to). Not all developers are happy about this, but it seems to be a general problem that documentation is not considered an essential part of the software and therefore often outdated.
